About Cambridge University Digital Library

This is made up of several components:

- Goobi: For the production/digitisation of items.

- Data on file system (METS/MODS, TEI etc) and Image data (TIFF, JPG, DZI)

- DSpace: For preservation.

- XTF: Processing metadata in a variety of formats into JSON for display, and 
indexing data for searching.

- Foundations Viewer: For display of data to end users.  
   
-------------------------------------------------------------

The system itself needed to be flexible to handle a huge variety of content, in order 
to achieve this we designed a modular system which was made up of individual 
components that could be replaced, altered or extended as required.

---- Goobi

The first component of our system is a tool for the production or digitisation of
content. This is the tool that is used for taking the images and the metadata for 
a given manuscript and taking it through the stages of a workflow to the final 
digital book.

The tool which we chose to use for this is Goobi, developed by Intranda. This is 
written in Java and is open source (though much if the source code and documentation 
is still in it's original German).

This tool allows us to setup steps in a process, which could include uploading 
images, allowing experts to add metadata, or assigning pagination among other 
steps. These can be tracked through the system and allows those with permission 
to view progress.

The final output is a record in METS/MODS format and images in formats suitable 
for display and for preservation.

--- Preservation & Display

Large tiff images and metadata are loaded into the DSpace @ Cambridge repository 
for preservation.

For display we use two applications: 

XTF (eXtensible Text Framework) 
and our own custom Digital Library viewer.

--- XTF

XTF is written and maintained by California Digital Library.
It's role for us is to take metadata both provided by our production system and 
from external sources, in a variety of formats. It then converts these to a single 
text format, JSON, which is used by our viewer.

It also indexes the metadata to allow for searching and faceted browsing.
Making use of XTF means that we should be able to quickly benefit from the 
large amount of work that California Digital Library have done in their 
search facility.

 --- Foundations Viewer

Our viewer takes the JSON metadata which is output from XTF and the display images
from Goobi and builds from that a user interface which allows people to explore
the content on the web.

We wanted to focus on the image, allowing users to view very high quality images 
while maintaining a usable interface.

One of the early requirements was also to display transcriptions provided by the 
Newton Project alongside the document images so both could be viewed at the same time.

We also wanted to allow the user to customise the interface so that, if they wanted 
to focus on the image they could collapse the information panels on the left and 
right sides to view more of the image at once.

The interface itself had to also be able to be extended to cope with more content 
and extra functionality, which is where we want to make further use of the tabs, 
which currently hold the transcription information.  This could mean we could add 
extra tabs for user notes or annotation, pulling in additional resources, or for 
any number of purposes depending on the content displayed.

We also wanted to make sure that the interface itself scaled with the size of your 
browser window.  This is so from the min. supported resolution upwards, the 
interface will make the most of that available space to show you every
detail of the document being viewed.




